* What were your reflections from the video?
    * Unconscious bias is the sort of thing that a lot of people will have a hard time admitting to themselves is going on, but these biases are part of how our brain operates. Because it is such an innate habit, it can be difficult for some people to tap into their own unconscious biases and move past them. Diversity within a team can help to shine a light on each individual's unconscious bias by creating an atmosphere of many unconscious biases. A developer can surmise who their user is - but their assumptions are likely riddled with unconscious bias.

* In what ways have you examined your implicit biases before coming to Turing?
    * In the past few years - I have really been examining my implicit bias towards other women. I've found that when another female is present I feel a deep sense of competition... For no real reason at all. To me this speaks an implicit bias within myself to feel that other females are a threat to me. I recently read *Blink* by Malcom Gladwell -- he talks about making really quick decisions and trusting your gut - but also being aware that unconscious and implicit biases can make this process a double edged sword. Since reading that I've really tried to check in with myself anytime I make a snap judgement about a human being. I like to ask myself "do I genuinely have any experience of this person or their life that confirms that this person is the way I think they are?" I am working to identify what kind of gaps my brain is filling automatically - and questioning it.

* What kind of software do you imagine building in the future? How will understanding biases (or avoiding understanding biases) impact your products?
    * My career started in interior design, so the idea of understanding your client / user has always been a part of my academic training. In that world and the software world, I think that empathy is important. Not just sympathy, but really trying to understand your user and trying to put yourself in their shoes and understand their needs. This requires getting out of your own headspace, seeing the world from their eyes and understanding their circumstances. Getting out of your own headspace requires a lot of reflecting on your own internal biases and seeing how they are filling gaps incorrectly. Pinpointing those gaps can help one to seek that info outside of themselves and filling it with an accurate picture of the users life, not one they are just assuming. I would like to build software that genuinely helps people. In that realm it will be crucial to understand biases within myself and how to help others on my team work to be aware of them as well.


“All of us live complex lives that require a great deal of juggling for survival,” Carty and Mohanty said in an email. “What that means is that we are actually living at the intersections of overlapping systems of privilege and oppression.”

* When you consider the way you move through the world, what elements of your identity are you most aware of on a daily basis?
    * I am very aware of being a female, and a white person on a daily busy. I carry a heavy amount of white guilt - which is one reason I stayed at my last job for so long. It was terrible and stressful, but I felt like it was one way to pay my dues for my white privilege. I am obviously working to move away from that mindset and move to a more positive world where I can use my white privelege to lift others, not just wallow in self misery. I am also very aware of being female.

* What strengths does your identity give you? How will you utilize those at Turing?
    * Currently I think the biggest strength I offer in terms of identity is offering some form of diversity. The cohort is mostly male, so I'd like to offer the female perspective in group and paired projects. I look forward to creating a positive experience for my peers when it comes to working with someone like me.

* How do you think you could value the identities of those around you to bring out their strengths at Turing? Has there been a time where you were able to advocate or include people around you?
    * I've often sought out the underdog in many life situations and tried my best to let them feel like they have an ally and friend. At Turing I'd like to put these habits of mine to use to help bridge the gap between male and female and to help encourage other females to have a voice if they are feeling timid about speaking up. I also hope that I have the courage to speak up if any males (or other females) act in a way that is disrespectful to fellow female classmates. In my work and academic experience women are often interrupted and not listened to.

* How will your strengths impact you as a teammate? What will you bring to your cohort?
    * I have very high standards for myself, which can be a bit much for some folks. I hope to inspire others to work hard, without being overbearing. I want everyone to feel good about themselves and be the best versions of themselves they can be. I like to bring a positive energy to anything that I do - it's been my experience that kindness will win in the end, you just have to be patient.
